README.md, before:

# Open repos

The source code for Anytype and Any-sync is available on [our Github](https://github.com/anyproto).

You can find basic documentation on how to build and run the solutions in the `README.md` files in each repository.

Our main repos:

| Repo | Description |
|---|---|
| [any-sync](https://github.com/anyproto/any-sync) | Protocol designed to create high-performance, local-first, peer-to-peer, end-to-end encrypted applications that facilitate seamless collaboration among multiple users and devices |
| [any-sync-node](https://github.com/anyproto/any-sync-node) | Implementation of node from any-sync protocol |
| [any-sync-filenode](https://github.com/anyproto/any-sync-filenode) | Implementation of file node from any-sync protocol |
| [any-sync-coordinator](https://github.com/anyproto/any-sync-coordinator) | Implementation of coordinator node from any-sync protocol |
| [any-block](https://github.com/anyproto/any-block) | Protocol describing data structures used in Anytype software |
| [anytype-heart](https://github.com/anyproto/anytype-heart) | Middleware library for Anytype |
| [anytype-ts](https://github.com/anyproto/anytype-ts) | Official Anytype client for MacOS, Linux, and Windows |
| [anytype-kotlin](https://github.com/anyproto/anytype-kotlin) | Official Anytype client for Android |
| [anytype-swift](https://github.com/anyproto/anytype-swift) | Official Anytype client for iOS |

Commit message:

List consensus in open repos

README.md, after:

# Open repos

The source code for Anytype and Any-sync is available on [our Github](https://github.com/anyproto).

You can find basic documentation on how to build and run the solutions in the `README.md` files in each repository.

Our main repos:

| Repo | Description |
|---|---|
| [any-sync](https://github.com/anyproto/any-sync) | Protocol designed to create high-performance, local-first, peer-to-peer, end-to-end encrypted applications that facilitate seamless collaboration among multiple users and devices |
| [any-sync-node](https://github.com/anyproto/any-sync-node) | Implementation of node from any-sync protocol |
| [any-sync-filenode](https://github.com/anyproto/any-sync-filenode) | Implementation of file node from any-sync protocol |
| [any-sync-consensusnode](https://github.com/anyproto/any-sync-consensusnode) | Implementation of consensus node from any-sync protocol |
| [any-sync-coordinator](https://github.com/anyproto/any-sync-coordinator) | Implementation of coordinator node from any-sync protocol |
| [any-block](https://github.com/anyproto/any-block) | Protocol describing data structures used in Anytype software |
| [anytype-heart](https://github.com/anyproto/anytype-heart) | Middleware library for Anytype |
| [anytype-ts](https://github.com/anyproto/anytype-ts) | Official Anytype client for MacOS, Linux, and Windows |
| [anytype-kotlin](https://github.com/anyproto/anytype-kotlin) | Official Anytype client for Android |
| [anytype-swift](https://github.com/anyproto/anytype-swift) | Official Anytype client for iOS |
